.. _release-2020.2.0:

================
Release 2020.2.0
================

This is considered the first mature release, with significant improvements 
around the targeting, new CLI options as well as other improvements and 
features.

Static Grains
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

With this release, static Grains can be configured easier for large (or all) 
groups of devices by having a ``grains`` section in the Master configuration 
file, e.g.,

``/etc/salt/master``

.. code-block:: yaml

  grains:
    salt:
      role: proxy

For more details check out the new section :ref:`static-grains`.

Improved targeting
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Targeting mechanisms have been revisited and rewrote almost from scratch, for 
a better user experience similar to when managing Proxy Minions and executing 
via the usual *salt* command.

On this occasion, there are two new CLI options added in this release: 
``--invasive-targeting`` and ``--preload-targeting``. The reasoning for adding
these is that the native *salt-sproxy* targeting highly depends on the data
you provide mainly through the *Roster* system (see also :ref:`roster`).
Through the Roster interface and other mechanisms, you are able to provide
static Grains, which you can use in your targeting expressions. There are
situations when you may want to target using more dynamic Grains that you
probably don’t want to manage statically, which may depend on various 
attributes retrieved *after* connecting to the device (e.g., hardware model, OS 
version, etc.). In such case, the ``--invasive-targeting`` targeting can be
helpful as it connects to the device, retrieves these attributes / Grains, then
executes the requested command, only on the devices matched by your target.

``--preload-targeting`` works in a similar way, with the distinction that it 
doesn't establish the connection with the remote device, however your target 
expression depends on number of attributes retrieved from various systems 
depending on each individual device (or group of devices).

Using ``--invasive-targeting`` together with ``--cache-grains`` and / or 
``--cache-pillar`` can speed up the run time when you execute next time (next
run would be without ``--invasive-targeting``), as the Grains / Pillar data is 
already available and will be used in determining the targets from your 
expression.

New Roster module: ``file``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Using the new :ref:`file-roster`, you can provide the universe of devices 
*salt-sproxy* can possibly manage through an arbitrary SLS file (therefore this 
file can be provided in any of the supported format: Jinja+YAML, YAML, JSON, 
Python, etc. - see `the list of available Renderers 
<https://docs.saltstack.com/en/latest/ref/renderers/>`__ for more options). The 
path to this file defaults to ``/etc/salt/roster``, or you can override it 
using the ``roster_file`` configuration option (or from the command line using 
``--roster-file``), providing the absolute path.

Example File Roster (as YAML):

``/etc/salt/roster``

.. code-block:: yaml

  device1:
    grains:
      site: site1
  device2:
    grains:
      site: site2

Example File Roster (as Jinja+YAML) - manage 100 device, with a simple Jinja 
+ YAML auto-generated Roster:

``/etc/salt/roster``

.. code-block:: yaml

  {%- for i in range(100) %}
  device{{ i }}:
    grains:
      site: site1
  {%- endfor %}

Example File Roster (as JSON):

``/etc/salt/roster``

.. code-block:: json

  {
    "device1": {
      "grains": {
        "site": "site1"
      }
    },
    "device2": {
      "grains": {
        "site": "site1"
      }
    }
  }

Using any of these, you'll be able to execute ``salt-sproxy -G site:site1 
test.ping`` (to target all devices that have the ``site`` Grain set as 
``site1``) or ``salt-sproxy 'device*' test.ping``, etc.

salt-sapi
~~~~~~~~~

In order to simplify the usage of the REST API calls to devices managed 
through *salt-sproxy*, beginning with this release, there's an additional 
program distributed with *salt-sproxy*, ``salt-sapi`` that leverages the usual
Salt API features, and on top, it provides an additional client for *sproxy*.


.. note::

    That means, instead of starting the usual ``salt-api``, in order to execute 
    REST calls through *sproxy*, you can start ``salt-sapi`` instead, using the 
    exact same CLI arguments and configuration options. See :ref:`salt-sapi` 
    for further information.

Example call before this release (without *salt-sapi*):

.. code-block:: bash

  $ curl -sS localhost:8080/run -H 'Accept: application/x-yaml' \
    -d eauth='pam' \
    -d username='mircea' \
    -d password='pass' \
    -d client='runner' \
    -d fun='proxy.execute' \
    -d tgt='minion1' \
    -d function='test.ping' \
    -d sync=True
  return:
  - minion1: true

Example call starting with this release (through *salt-sapi*):

.. code-block:: bash

  $ curl -sS localhost:8080/run -H 'Accept: application/x-yaml' \
       -d eauth='pam' \
       -d username='mircea' \
       -d password='pass' \
       -d client='sproxy' \
       -d tgt='minion1' \
       -d fun='test.ping'
  return:
  - minion1: true

Notice in the later call the client invoked is ``sproxy``, while the ``fun`` 
field points straight to the Execution Function you want to execute (as in 
opposite to a more convoluted usage of both ``fun`` and ``function`` as 
previously).

.. seealso::

    Check out the :ref:`example-salt-sapi` example for configuring and using 
    the *salt-sapi* interface.

New CLI options
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

New CLI options added in this release, to provide similar functionality to the 
usual ``salt`` command:

``--batch-wait``: Wait a specific number of seconds after each batch is done
before executing the next one.

``--hide-timeout``: Hide devices that timeout.

``--failhard``: Stop the execution at the first error.

``--progress`` / ``-p``: Display a progress graph to visually show the
execution of the command across the list of devices.

``--summary``: Display a summary of the command execution:

    - Total number of devices targeted.
    - Number of devices that returned without issues.
    - Number of devices that timed out executing the command. See also ``-t``
      or ``--timeout`` argument to adjust the timeout value.
    - Number of devices with errors (i.e., there was an error while executing
      the command).
    - Number of unreachable devices (i.e., couldn't establish the connection
      with the remote device).

    In ``-v`` / ``--verbose`` mode, this output is enahnced by displaying the
    list of devices that did not return / with errors / unreachable.

    Example:

    .. code-block:: text

        -------------------------------------------
        Summary
        -------------------------------------------
        # of devices targeted: 10
        # of devices returned: 3
        # of devices that did not return: 5
        # of devices with errors: 0
        # of devices unreachable: 2
        -------------------------------------------

``--show-jid``: Display the JID (Job ID).

``--verbose`` / ``-v``: Turn on command verbosity, display jid, devices per
batch, and detailed summary.

``--pillar-root``: Set a specific directory as the base pillar root.

``--states-dir``: Set a specific directory to search for additional States.

``--module-dirs`` / ``-m``: Specify one or more directories where to load the
extension modules from. Multiple directories can be provided by passing ``-m``
or ``--module-dirs`` multiple times.

``--saltenv``:  The Salt environment name where to load extension modules and
files from.

``--config-dump``: Print the complete salt-sproxy configuration values (with
the defaults), in YAML format.

Returners
`````````

Using the ``--return``, ``--return-config``, and ``--return-kwargs`` new CLI 
options, you can forward the execution results to various systems such as SQL 
databases, Slack, Syslog, or NoSQL systems, etc. - see `here 
<https://docs.saltstack.com/en/latest/ref/returners/all/index.html#all-salt-returners>`__ 
the list of natively available Returner modules you can use.
