.. _release-2020.7.0:

================
Release 2020.7.0
================

Explicit return when the Minion is not connected
------------------------------------------------

When using *salt-sproxy* to execute against running (Proxy) Minions, it may 
happen sometimes that the Minion is not available for various reasons (e.g., 
key accepted, but the service is not fully started, etc.). When this happens, 
*salt-sproxy* now returns an explicit message ``Minion did not return. [Not 
connected]`` for better feedback on the command line.

Batch targeting using percent
-----------------------------

Similar to the Salt `batch size 
<https://docs.saltstack.com/en/latest/topics/targeting/batch.html>`__ 
targeting, through salt-sproxy you can now divide the target in batches of size 
relative to the total number of devices matched by your target. For example, 
running ``salt-sproxy -G os:junos -b 20% net.cli "show version"`` would execute 
``show version`` on the Junos devices, in 5 groups at a time.

NetBox Roster no longer depending on the NetBox module
------------------------------------------------------

In order to reduce the code overlap, the :ref:`netbox-roster` module included 
in salt-sproxy has been designed to use code from the Salt native NetBox 
module. Due to bugs in older versions of Salt, the NetBox Roster wasn't 
properly working, and starting with this release this dependency has been 
removed, so the salt-sproxy NetBox Roster works equally well regardless on the 
underlying Salt version you're using.

Merge Pillar/Roster configuration into the Master opts
------------------------------------------------------

`PR #115 <https://github.com/mirceaulinic/salt-sproxy/pull/115>`__ and `PR #124 
<https://github.com/mirceaulinic/salt-sproxy/pull/124>`__ allow one to provide 
the ``proxy:`` block also / only in the Master configuration, which simplifies
the usage as you no longer have to provide any Pillar at all, or, at least, put 
in the Master configuration the details shared across your devices, e.g.,
username, password, proxy type, etc. For example:

``/etc/salt/master``

.. code-block:: yaml

  proxy:
    proxytype: napalm
    username: test
    password: test

If you'll want more dynamic data, you'll have to model that through the Pillar, 
as that's far more flexible than the Master config which is mainly for static 
data. Up to a degree, however, the Master configuration can be a little bit
more  dynamic, by making use of the `SDB 
<https://docs.saltstack.com/en/latest/topics/sdb/>`__ interface. Example:

.. code-block:: yaml

  # Define the "environ" SDB instance, using the env SDB module:
  # https://docs.saltstack.com/en/latest/ref/sdb/all/salt.sdb.env.html

  environ:
    driver: env

  proxy:
    proxytype: napalm
    username: test
    password: sdb://environ/NAPALM_PASS

In the snippet above, the password will be dynamically retrieved from the 
``NAPALM_PASS`` environment variable, so the ``password`` field will render to 
that value. In a similar way, using SDB modules, you can gather information 
from other resources, making use of other existing SDB modules, e.g., `Vault 
<https://docs.saltstack.com/en/latest/ref/sdb/all/salt.sdb.vault.html>`__, or 
`YAML <https://docs.saltstack.com/en/latest/ref/sdb/all/salt.sdb.yaml.html>`__ 
using the ``gpg: true`` option to decrypt GPG-encrypted data, or other SDB
modules defined in your own environment. For greater flexibility, however, 
remember to use the Pillar features.

Optimise the execution speed
----------------------------

By loading only the Proxy module of choice (see `PR #143 
<https://github.com/mirceaulinic/salt-sproxy/pull/143>`__), the execution time 
has been reduced by 2-3 seconds. In a similar way, salt-sproxy is now only 
loading the Roster module referenced (if any) which speeds up a little the 
initial startup.

You can further improve the performances in your own environment, by auditing 
what modules you require and / or if you make use of any custom modules at all. 
See also the new page :ref:`best-practices` for more detail recommendations.

Managing remote Unix and Windows machines via SSH
-------------------------------------------------

Using *salt-sproxy*, besides regular Minions, regular Proxy Minions, and 
standalone Proxy Minions (managed by *salt-sproxy* itself), you can now also
manage arbitrary machines via SSH, in the same way as you'd normally do through 
`salt-ssh <https://docs.saltstack.com/en/latest/topics/ssh/>`__. In fact, this
is actually done through the :ref:`ssh-proxy` shipped together with this 
package, which in turn invokes *salt-ssh* internals. While *salt-ssh* has 
been part of the Salt suite for years, it has always been decoupled from the 
rest. One of the evident implications is that you manage some devices by 
running ``salt``, and others by running ``salt-ssh``. *salt-sproxy* aims to 
abstract that away, and provide a single, uniform methodology for managing 
whatever flavours of Salt you want, through the same command and offering the 
same features.

The configuration is very simple; for example, you can add the following to 
your Master configuration file:

``/etc/salt/master``

.. code-block:: yaml

  proxy:
    proxytype: ssh
    host: <IP address or hostname>
    user: <username>
    passwd: <password>

(You can also use SSH keys for authentication, see :ref:`ssh` for more details,
and other available options)

The you can start executing Salt commands as usual:

.. code-block:: bash

  $ salt-sproxy 'srv' grains.get manufacturer
  DigitalOcean

  $ salt-sproxy 'srv' state.apply
  srv:
  ----------
            ID: vim
      Function: pkg.installed
        Result: True
       Comment: All specified packages are already installed
       Started: 16:38:22.981459
      Duration: 57.998 ms
       Changes:   
  ----------
            ID: ack
      Function: pkg.installed
        Result: True
       Comment: All specified packages are already installed
       Started: 16:38:23.039783
      Duration: 42.267 ms
       Changes:   

  Summary for sproxy
  ------------
  Succeeded: 2
  Failed:    0
  ------------
  Total states run:     2
  Total run time: 100.265 ms

.. seealso::

    Please refer to :ref:`ssh` for further details.

Other changes and enhancements
------------------------------

- Improve the Grains and Pillar cache loading: `PR 
  #117 <https://github.com/mirceaulinic/salt-sproxy/pull/117>`__.
- Remove the Grains under the proxy Pillar: `PR #114 
  <https://github.com/mirceaulinic/salt-sproxy/pull/114>`__.
- Correct nodegroups definition bug: `PR #128 
  <https://github.com/mirceaulinic/salt-sproxy/pull/128>`__.
- Ensure that the execution timeout defaults to 60 seconds: `PR #144 
  <https://github.com/mirceaulinic/salt-sproxy/pull/144>`__.
