.. _release-2021.6.0:

========
2021.6.0
========

While this release doesn't bring any particularly new features, it provides 
several performance improvements which are easily noticeable, from an user 
perspective (when transitioning from a previous *salt-sproxy* version to 
2021.6.0):

- Batch execution is no longer the default behaviour when targeting against 
  running Proxy Minions (i.e., when using the ``--use-existing-proxy`` CLI 
  option, or setting the configuration to ``use_existing_proxy: true`` into the 
  Master config file). That is, when executing *salt-sproxy* in an environment 
  where you have a Salt Master running and managing running Proxy or regular
  Minions, and your targeting expression matches some or all of those Minions,
  the execution is spread out to all the Minions at once. If you want to 
  execute in batches, you will need to explicitly use the ``-b`` (or 
  ``--batch-size`` CLI argument). Note however, that for devices that don't 
  have a (Proxy) Minion running, the batch continues to default to the number 
  of CPUs available on the local machine. As always, for a quicker execution 
  (yet more resource intensive) you may want to set a higher batch size value.

- Whenever targeting against running (Proxy) Minions, in case you want to 
  perform a survey against your Minions and determine which ones are alive, you 
  can use the ``--test-ping`` CLI option (or set ``test_ping: true`` in the 
  Master configuration file). Before this release, this option was the default 
  behaviour. While this allows you to know in advance which Minions are going 
  to reply, and which are unresponsive, it is more resource consuming, as it 
  spreads an additional set of events, by executing a ``test.ping`` across your 
  fleet.

Among a few bug fixes, it's worth noting that extension modules you may have in 
your own environment should now be working well when :ref:`ssh`.
